tmux-vim
========

**tmux-vim** is a bash script which works in conjunction with **tmux** to create
a persistent **vim** pane within a **tmux** window.

![screenshot](http://sdt.github.com/tmux-vim/img/tvim-screenshot.png)

Usage
-----

Use **tmux-vim** just like you'd use **vim**.

`tmux-vim [file] [files...]`


The first time you run it, a new pane will be created besides your current
**tmux** window according to `TMUX_VIM_SPLIT`, running an instance of **vim**.

Further calls to **tmux-vim** will open the files in new buffers in the same
**vim** session.

If you close that **vim** session, the pane will be destroyed. The next call to
**tmux-vim** will create a new one.

Installation
------------

Copy **tmux-vim** to somewhere in your path.

Requirements
------------

You need **tmux** version 1.6 or later.

Configuration
-------------

By default **tmux-vim** will split the shell pane according to the size defined
by `TMUX_VIM_SHELL_WIDTH` or `TMUX_VIM_SHELL_HEIGHT`, let the vim pane occupy
the rest space.

In a 'HORIZIONTAL' split, if either `TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_WIDTH` or
`TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_COUNT` is set, the **tmux-vim** will caculate the width of
the vim pane to ensure it can hold as much `TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_COUNT` as
possible and leave shell pane at least `TMUX_VIM_SHELL_WIDTH` width. But if
current screen can only hold one window size of vim, then `TMUX_VIM_SHELL_WIDTH`
will be ignored.

This behaviour can be adjusted with the following environment variables.

You can set these variables in ~/.tmux-vim.conf.

### TMUX_VIM_SPLIT

Value: [ 'HORIZONTAL' | 'VERTICAL' ]

Optional, default is 'HORIZONTAL'.

Define how **tmux-vim** split panes.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_ARGS

Optional.

Command-line arguments to pass through to **vim**.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_BIN

Optional, default is 'vim'.

The binary executable used to run **vim**. Useful if you're using
[MacVim](http://code.google.com/p/macvim/) and have another binary like `mvim`
which you'd like to use.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_WIDTH

Optional, default is 80.

If `TMUX_VIM_SPLIT` is 'HORIZONTAL', then this variable defines the minimum
width of the vim pane.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_WIDTH

Optional, default is the same as `TMUV_VIM_VIM_WIDTH`.

Width of a single **vim** window in columns.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_COUNT

Optional.

Specify a fixed number of **vim** windows with this.

### TMUX_VIM_VIM_WINDOW_SPLIT

Value: [ 'TRUE' | 'FALSE' ]

Optional, default is 'FALSE'.

If this variable is set to 'TRUE', then the vim will be splitted according to
the caculation of `$tmux_vim_window_count`.

### TMUX_VIM_SHELL_WIDTH

Optional, default is 132.

If `TMUX_VIM_SPLIT` is 'HORIZONTAL', then this variable defines the width of the
shell pane.

On narrow displays, one **vim** pane will always be created, even if this means
we leave less that `TMUX_VIM_SHELL_WIDTH` columns for the shell.

### TMUX_VIM_SHELL_HEIGHT

Optional, default is 15.

If `TMUX_VIM_SPLIT` is 'VERTICAL', then this variable defines the height of the
shell pane.

How's it work?
--------------

**tmux** makes it all possible.

First `tmux split-window` is used to create the **vim** pane, and the pane id is
saved in the tmux environment. This happens on demand - panes are created only
when needed.

The **vim** instance is controlled by injecting keystrokes with
`tmux send-keys`. To load a file, **tmux-vim** sends `:edit filename<cr>` to the
**vim** instance.

Finally, `tmux select-pane` transfers control over to the **vim** pane.

Bugs?
-----

Probably.

By default, **vim** won't abandon an unsaved file to open another one, instead
the user is prompted to save, abandon or cancel. This can throw out the
keystroke injection when trying to open multiple files.

To avoid this problem, files are loaded with calls to `:badd` rather than
`:edit`. After the last buffer is added, `:buffer` is used to switch to it. This
delays the user prompt until the very end, when the user has regained control.
This appears to work, but there may still be issues lurking.

When the **vim** pane is created, the current directory is saved in the **tmux**
environment. The directory is used when computing relative paths. If the user
manually changes the vim working directory, the relative paths will break.
